VALMET GLOBAL PROCUREMENT POLICY
Contents

1.	PURPOSE AND SCOPE	3
2.	PROCUREMENT POLICY PRINCIPLES	3
2.1.	Preapproval is Procurement	3
2.2.	Ensure purchases are covered with formal contracts	3
2.3.	Buying Channels Define Compliance	3
2.4.	Empowered Procurement, Accountable Business	3
2.5.	No PO – No Pay: Accountability Starts with the Order	3
2.6.	Low-Value ≠ Low-Control	4
3.	SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT	4
4.	BUYING CHANNELS	4
4.1.	The target is a compliant and efficient purchase to pay process	4
4.2.	Overview of Buying Channels	5
4.3.	Buying channels for Direct procurement	5
4.4.	Buying Channels for Indirect procurement	5
4.5.	Principles for using Payment cards	6
5.	PAYMENTS	6
6.	ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES	6
7.	EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPROVALS	7


 
Abbreviations

Basware P2P		Basware Shop & Invoice Automation
ERP		Enterprise Resource Planning (e.g. Infor LN)
MRP		Material Requirement Planning
PO		Purchase Order
PR		Purchase Requisition (PUREQ in LN)
 

1.	PURPOSE AND SCOPE
Valmet procurement policy defines the global uniform guidelines for purchasing and payment processes across all Valmet units. The guidelines emphasize compliance, risk management, and operational transparency. Any employee authorized to make purchases or submit expenses must comply with this policy.
This policy describes the common principles to be followed in supplier transactions across Valmet. Business Areas may define more detailed guidelines which may be stricter than the Global Procurement Policy but cannot contradict it. This document does not apply to trade between Valmet group companies.
2.	PROCUREMENT POLICY PRINCIPLES  
2.1.	Ensure purchases are covered with formal contracts
Suppliers commitments must always be covered by a formal contract saved to Supplier Contract Vault.   The purpose of a supplier contract is to define scope of purchase, commercial terms and to manage risks during and after the delivery of the goods or services. 
A purchase order that references the Valmet General Purchase Conditions or Service Purchase Conditions is used when no other contract is in place.
2.2.	Preapproval is Procurement
Procurement requires a cost approval before purchase order is issued . Approver is determined by the Valmet Global Approval Policy.   
Any purchase initiated without prior authorization through the relevant request-to-pay process is considered non-compliant. Post-delivery approvals with non-PO invoice handling undermines budget discipline, risk management, and operational transparency.
2.3.	Buying Channels Define Compliance
Only purchases made through approved buying channels—such as Basware Shop, PUREQ, or ERP-generated purchase orders—are considered compliant. Use of unapproved channels or bypassing the request-to-pay process can result in delayed payments, non-reimbursement, or escalation.
2.4.	Empowered Procurement, Accountable Business
Procurement provides tools, training, and systems to ensure a compliant source-to-pay process. Business Areas are accountable for implementing the global practices to use and initiating purchases through the correct processes. Non-compliance is not excused by lack of awareness or convenience-based workarounds.
2.5.	No PO – No Pay   : Accountability Starts with the Order
All purchases should be documented   before any goods or services are delivered and invoiced. The individual initiating the purchase with a supplier is fully responsible for ensuring that a valid buying channel is used and purchase order or spend plan is provided to the supplier prior to delivery, ensuring that supplier is able to deliver and invoice correctly and efficiently with a reference that can be used to validate purchase invoice and make payment.  
While non-PO invoices will be processed to ensure supplier relationships are maintained, they are treated as exceptions. Invoices received without a corresponding PO have a long lead time to get processed for payment, and the purchase owner  may be held accountable for any delays or non-compliance.
2.6.	Low-Value ≠ Low-Control
All purchases, regardless of value, must follow defined buying channels. If no catalog or on-hand stock is available, company payment cards  are the only approved method for one-time, low-value purchases without a PO, and only within pre-approved categories (e.g., travel, events, representation, minor supply purchases). These transactions are subject to the locally defined Spend authorization   process as well as monitoring and reporting.
3.	SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
Valmet aims to reduce the number of suppliers globally by consolidating  purchases to preferred suppliers. In parallel, Valmet aims to reduce single source supplier risks with a dual sourcing strategy.   Utilizing preferred and formally approved suppliers should be prioritized in any purchase.
If a suitable approved supplier is not found, potential suppliers must be assessed and approved before we do business with them for the first time. The person initiating a purchase is responsible for submitting any new supplier for approval before committing to any transaction.
Assessment and risk analysis ensures that suppliers we do business with comply with Valmet Supplier Code of Conduct and that they are free of sanctions and criminal activity. Finally banking information must be verified by finance and available in operative systems before an invoice can be paid. 
The system for assessing and approving potential suppliers is called Compass. Compass is also used to maintain supplier master data to operative systems. Valmet Procurement is responsible for approving suppliers and prefers to use registered companies, avoiding private individuals as suppliers.
4.	BUYING CHANNELS 
4.1.	The target is a compliant and efficient purchase to pay process
Valmet aims at invoice automation and a high touchless order match rate by minimizing manual invoice review and approval tasks across Valmet. Every Valmet  employee is responsible for utilizing the right buying channel for each case. 
Using the defined buying channels minimizes manual tasks, errors and delays across the P2P process. 
Invoice handling is not the correct time to control what has been delivered. Suppliers typically invoice based on their own process and purchase owner is responsible for validating the invoice.  For goods, invoices are based on delivery, for services invoices are based on a service agreement or on reported hours that are approved by Valmet. In direct procurement, it is important to record goods receipts on POs without delay when goods have arrived, or services have been performed and approved to validate invoices and enable timely cost recognition and payment of invoices.

4.2.	Overview of Buying Channels
 
4.3.	Buying channels for Direct Procurement
Direct procurement refers to the procurement of materials and services for project and service contracts, the cost of which can be invoiced directly to the customer. 
The procurement organization is managing most of the direct purchasing. Approvals follow the defined customer project responsibilities and purchases are executed according to plan. 
Primary buying channels for direct procurement: 
1.	Purchase orders generated from MRP in ERP, followed by Goods Receipts
2.	Purchase requisitions (PUREQs), Purchase Orders, followed by Goods Receipts
3.	Transportation orders 
4.4.	Buying channels for Indirect Procurement
Indirect procurement involves purchasing goods and services that support business activities but are not directly tied to fulfilling customer contracts.
When writing this policy, there are local variations in available indirect buying channels and the categories that they apply to. It is the responsibility of every Valmet employee  with a buying need and when dealing with a supplier to adhere to the principles of this policy and use buying channels valid in their country.
Aspects to consider are the one-time cost and overall expected spend with supplier, and the frequency of transactions with the supplier. 
Primary buying channels for indirect procurement:
1.	Purchase requisitions (PUREQs), Purchase Orders (POs), followed by Goods Receipts (GRs), when no other buying channel applies
2.	Basware P2P Purchase requisitions (where available). Goods receiving is mainly automated for Basware Shop orders.
3.	Basware P2P Spend Plans – recommended for contracted recurring expenses like utilities, leases and rents. 
4.	Travel booking channels as defined in Traveler’s Guide and local Travel Policy
5.	Payment Cards with corresponding spend authorization and expense report  
4.5.	Principles for using Payment cards  
Main goal for utilizing payment cards is to avoid costly administration of opening suppliers that are used once or limited times with low value purchases. Invoices on small purchases often include invoicing fees and extra charges which can be high compared to the value of the purchase and often have a short payment term. 
Payment cards can be used for one-time purchases below 1000 € in value, or up to amount preapproved in Spend Authorization.  
In the following cases, payment card must be prioritized:
•	Travel expenses.
•	One time purchases, like restaurant bills, representation and employee recreation
•	Ad hoc office and workshop supplies, and customer project site minor purchases, when no catalog is available.
If supplier does not accept payment card, the purchase owner must take care to initiate supplier opening process in Compass before supplier is provided with invoicing request.  The purchase owner may be held accountable for any delays in Invoice Payment or non-compliance
Use of Payment cards are described in detail in the Global Payment card Policy  
5.	PAYMENTS
Valmet has defined ways to pay suppliers. Utilizing the defined buying channels ensures costs are recognized in a timely manner and payments to suppliers are processed securely, on time and efficiently. The payment methods are governed by the Global Payment Policy.
6.	ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
This chapter outlines the main responsibilities of business, procurement and finance in complying with this Global Procurement Policy.
Business / Purchase owner
•	Initiates supplier assessment in Compass prior to any purchases with a new supplier
•	Ensures all purchases are preapproved and aligned with budgetary controls.
•	Initiates purchases through approved buying channels
•	Ensures purchases are covered by formal contracts, or that purchase orders include Valmet General Purchase Conditions.
Procurement 
•	Approves new suppliers and manages supplier intake processes.
•	Conducts supplier risk assessments and ensures financial health criteria are met.
•	Leads negotiation of commercial contract terms 
•	Ensures Compass and ERP systems reflect accurate supplier and payment term data.
•	Defines and maintains compliant buying channels and supports business in their correct usage.
•	Executes direct operative purchasing, managing purchase orders, delivery quality and accuracy 
Supplier
•	Adheres to contract and purchase order terms and references purchase orders or spend plans on all invoices.
•	Operates under formal contracts where applicable and complies with Valmet’s Supplier Code of Conduct.
•	Meets quality, delivery, and service standards as defined in agreements and monitored by procurement.
Finance
•	Ensures that financial master data related to suppliers is accurate and up to date in operative systems
•	Ensures timely and accurate payment processing in accordance with agreed terms and supplier master data
•	Maintains financial controls to support touch-free invoice matching and fraud prevention.
•	Supports business in handling exceptions to processing invoices
•	Flags and investigates non-PO invoices and other exceptions for compliance and risk mitigation.
.


